“IF I WERE AN ENVIRONMENTALIST”
1.World today is facing a great environmental crisis. Our modern society based on scientific progress of the 20th century has pushed our planet earth almost to the limit. We are observing fast changing weather conditions like excessive rain or heat or cold in many parts of the world.
2. Moreover, the cycle of seasons has also been affected in a great way.Climatic change has forced natural balance-ecological or otherwise-to deteriorate further.
3.BUT WE CANNOT ALLOW IT TO CONTINUE LIKE THAT. TIME IS RUNNING OUT!!!

We need considered and coordinated approach of the nation as a WHOLE!

4.Environment  – not an isolated area of focus
One very important aspect of environment is our attitude towards our surroundings. We need to have a deep understanding of composition of our environment
 It is extremely important that we do not disturb anyway this tricky and sensitive balance that holds our earth together

Poverty – a curse
We know the level of poverty in our society. Around 16% of the population lives below the poverty line. They can’t afford two meals a day most of the time.
Basic needs of life like food, shelter, clothing and education are beyond their reach.  


Environment: consciousness
We have a number of NGOs who are working at the grass root level ranging from poverty eradication to tree plantation and economic use of environment.
 These are pockets of uncoordinated efforts, which need a proper and big push.

 Above perspective requires a thoughtful planning and policy approach with well-defined action plans backed up by resource allocation.

1. Need assessment: assessment of total social, economic and environmental needs.
2.Arrangement for pollution free industries  and vehicles
3.Limiting urbanization through rural employment generation
4.Limiting use of chemicals in agriculture and other areas
5.Ensuring pure drinking water
6.Use of mass media and peoples participation
In conclusion, we shall not lose our focus on environment, which is so vital for the world and us.

WORLD must unite and stand for every living beings right to live in the given natural ENVIRONMENT.
thank you
 